文章总数: 2 篇
==============================

1. 新浪新闻 APP -  (大桥如何防船撞？船舶拦截智能黑科技“上新”) 2023-05-12 扬子晚报   扬子晚报

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

文字快照 :https://k.sina.cn/article_1653603955_628ffe7302001gjpi.html

 

不久前,宁波大学实验团队在浙江象山石浦海域,开展了一次智能潜浮式防船撞阻拦实验。即尝试在水面上拉起一道智能防护链,防止大船撞大桥。 

实验中,科研人员驾驶一艘500吨级的大型船舶模拟撞向大桥,却在事故发生之前,被水面的数个橡胶气囊拦截下来。这种“潜浮式船舶拦截”究竟是什么样的新技术?当大船撞大桥事故不幸发生时,如何才能避免桥损船毁、两败俱伤? 

如何给拦阻装置装上“智慧大脑”? 

智能潜浮式船舶拦截新技术用来阻拦失控船舶的橡胶气囊,平时并不在水面上,只有事故即将发生时,才会迅速弹出组成防护链。 

智能潜浮式防船撞拦阻技术是2018年,由港珠澳大桥管理局联合宁波大学等单位共同研发,目的是利用柔性防护理念,解决大桥防船撞这一难题。 

宁波大学冲击与安全工程教育部重点实验室副主任 王永刚:这个技术是为港珠澳大桥研发,港珠澳大桥希望我们这个设施有“智能性”,跟大桥的智能化管养能够结合起来。另外对它的景观性不要有太大的影响。 

中铁大桥勘测设计院教授级高工 贾恩实:还有一个是港珠澳大桥海域生存着国家的保护动物白海豚,对水域环境要求非常高,我们的拦阻设施也不能影响白海豚的生活环境。 

传统的阻拦方式是在水面安装拦截网,守株待兔式地被动防护。新技术则给拦阻装置装上了“智慧大脑”,这些拦阻装置日常沉于水下,主要包括橡胶气囊、拦阻带和高分子材料做成的绳索。气囊先跟拦阻带串联,两端分别跟固定在海床上的两个浮体相连,高分子绳索也用同样的方式跟浮体连接。防撞区域都安装了雷达、视频识别系统以及AIS(船舶自动识别系统),这套拦阻系统就像安装在汽车里的安全气囊,只有遇到危险时才会迅速弹出。 

宁波大学冲击与安全工程教育部重点实验室副主任 王永刚:首先雷达可以判别它的速度、距离是多少,视频可以看它的尺寸,如果是船舶的话AIS可以提供船名、载重量等一些具体信息。多种数据互相交合下,最后来识别它到底是船还是别的漂流物或者是其他的一些东西。 

什么是非通航孔桥与通航孔桥? 

“拉链式”防撞技术主要是用来防护非通航孔桥的。一座大型桥梁通常由通航孔桥和非通航孔桥两大部分组成。可以通航的部分称为通航孔桥,其他不通航的部分则是非通航孔桥,两者均存在船撞风险。由于通航孔桥和非通航孔桥所处位置、水文环境、桥墩结构均不相同,因此安装的防船撞系统也有所不同。 

通航孔桥允许船舶通过,防撞设施主要安装在桥墩上。而非通航孔桥不允许船舶通过,且因自身抗撞击能力差、桥下“净空较小”等特点,一旦发生撞击易造成桥梁结构失效,因此防撞系统主要采用拦阻方式,也就是拉起隔离“栅栏”。 

高科技如何给大桥穿上 

防撞“铠甲”? 

大型桥梁上用于船舶通行的通航孔桥,桥墩被撞的风险最大,因此需要特殊防护。 

“铠甲”式防船撞装置是由外钢围、柔性防撞圈和内钢围三部分构成,包裹在桥墩外侧。据实船撞击实验结果显示,它可有效减少55%~75%撞击力,实现了桥梁、船舶、防撞设施“三不坏”,就像打太极一样。 

宁波大学冲击与安全工程教育部重点实验室副主任 王永刚:以柔克刚,刚柔共济。船撞过来之后,这个装置能够有往后退的一个比较大的变形,一边往后退,一边给船一个反撞力,让它改变航向,来沿着我们的防撞设施外侧滑走。 

设计该装置的受力区间,要根据大桥通航船舶的最大吨位、最大航速以及日常的风力、水流速度等,来设计桥梁通航孔的防船撞装置的最大承受撞击能力。以已经应用了该装置的宁波象山港大桥为例,它的通航等级是5万吨的船舶,防撞设施要能抵抗航速7节、5万吨船舶的撞击。 

宁波大学冲击与安全工程教育部重点实验室副主任 王永刚:结构的设计改变,主要是改变在外钢围的刚度和柔性防撞圈的柔度。如果防10万吨的船,外钢围的尺寸更大,刚度更强,防撞圈的变形能力也就更大。这样最后我们要找到一个最佳的匹配关系,叫做刚柔匹配度。 

如何“刚柔并济”防止船桥相撞? 

要达到“刚柔并济”的防撞效果,这套“铠甲”还有一项关键技术。 

宁波大学冲击与安全工程教育部重点实验室副主任 王永刚:关键技术就是中间的防撞圈,防撞圈外面包裹的是一层橡胶,主要作用是防腐蚀,因为防撞设施主要用在跨海大桥,而海洋环境下对腐蚀的要求比较高。经过大量的研究和实验,我们最后选择抗海水腐蚀能力比较高的氯丁橡胶。而里面更关键的是钢丝绳,它是一圈一圈,绕成一个圈。通过钢丝绳它能有大变形的能力。在撞击过程中,钢丝绳跟钢丝绳之间有摩擦,摩擦也会消耗小部分的能量,这样就可以起到缓冲的作用。 

“船桥相撞”的后果有多严重? 

一直以来,大桥防撞都是困扰工程界的难题之一。“船桥相撞”事故后果有多严重?对于大桥防撞技术的需求又有多迫切? 

数据显示,2007年以来,我国已发生重大船撞桥事故90多起,对交通大动脉造成严重危害。2020年颁布的《公路桥梁抗撞设计规范》明确指出,“船舶撞击非通航孔引起的桥梁垮塌事故的数量约为撞击主通航孔的两倍,非通航孔桥的船撞问题需要引起重视”。2020年交通运输部与国家铁路局、国铁集团联合发布了《船舶碰撞桥梁隐患治理三年行动实施方案》,要求全面排查和治理船舶碰撞桥梁安全隐患。与此同时,《交通运输部交通运输科技“十三五”规划》把跨航道桥梁防船撞关键技术与设施的研发列为交通安全应急领域的研究重点,交通运输部要求可能遭受大型船舶撞击的通航桥梁必须建桥梁防撞设施。 

目前,宁波大学的这项“铠甲式”防撞技术已应用于广东湛江海湾大桥、浙江宁波象山港公路大桥、福建平潭海峡大桥等重大工程。而“拉链式”的大桥防撞技术,未来还可能运用于港口码头、海上风电、大坝以及岛礁的安全防护等。 

发布于:江苏 

文章编号: 604a82e943401dbb3e1d25564f742f7c
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. 学习强国 APP -  (Cherish Mangroves While We Can) 2023-05-08    北京周报

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

文字快照 :https://article.xuexi.cn/articles/index.html?art_id=16263455714731470408&item_id=16263455714731470408

 

    Children plant mangrove seedlings in the Fujian Jiulong Jiangkou Provincial Mangrove Nature Reserve on April 15 (COURTESY PHOTO) 

Under the canopies of dense mangrove forests, swarms of creatures thrive. Some are rare and some unique. Many—ranging from mollusks and crustaceans to fish, waterfowl and even tigers—are featured in Mangrove Comics, a series created by China Mangrove Conservation Network (CMCN), an environmental organization based in Xiamen, Fujian Province. A mudskipper, an amazing fish that can jump, climb trees and dig burrows in mud, is the main character of one of the comics. Unlike most fish, mudskippers can live out of water for long periods in the intertidal zone. They move around with their leg-like fins, which can also form a sucker-like structure that allows them to stay on trees. Most mudskippers feed on small animals such as crustaceans, insects and worms, and some eat algae. 

"The Mangrove Comics series has been published on our account on [the social media app] Weixin and in China Children's Daily for three years," Liu Yi, Executive Director of the CMCN, told Beijing Review, adding that it has now also been published as a book. The series introduces, in an amusing way, animals found in mangrove forests and coastal wetlands in addition to facts about mangroves, to raise public awareness of the richness of biodiversity in these ecosystems and the importance of their protection. 

In addition to writing about the amazing creatures that inhabit mangroves, Liu and his colleagues also take groups of children to observe them in their natural habitat from time to time and organize mangrove-themed drawing competitions. 

    Liu Yi, Executive Director of China Mangrove Conservation Network, conducts field research in Fujian Jiulong Jiangkou Provincial Mangrove Nature Reserve in Longhai, Fujian Province, on July 17, 2022 (COURTESY PHOTO) 

Passing on knowledge  

Mudskippers, small crabs, footprints in the sand and waves lapping the shore are part of Liu's childhood memories, as he was born and grew up on the coast in Putian, Fujian. He has been a nature lover since childhood and received his university education at Xiamen University in Fujian, where he eventually earned a doctoral degree in environmental science. In 2001, when he was an undergraduate student, he became the leader of a newly founded student group aiming to protect mangroves. In 2009, this student group was officially registered as a nongovernmental environmental organization, which is now known as the CMCN, committed to protecting the biodiversity of coastal wetlands, especially mangrove ecosystems. 

Mangroves usually grow in tropical and subtropical coastal intertidal zones, and they are partially or completely submerged by seawater during high tide. While adapting to their environment, mangroves have developed special features such as the ability to reject and secrete salt. The many species of mangroves share a number of features, such as being viviparous, which means that the embryos (the young plant within the seed) grow to break through the seed coat or even out of the fruit wall while still attached to the parent plant. 

Two of the CMCN's objectives are educating the public about mangroves and engaging them in protecting the trees. Over the past year, Liu has been busy, accepting interviews from media, sharing experiences at events such as the 2022 National Coral Reef Forum, publishing articles including one in U.S.-based National Geographic Kids magazine, organizing intertidal biodiversity surveys in Hainan Province and coordinating seedling planting activities. 

Recently, the CMCN launched its ninth Mangrove Seedling Adoption Program to mark Earth Day, which falls on April 22. "Approximately 3,500 primary and secondary school students and their families from regions including Fujian, Guangdong and Sichuan provinces and Chongqing Municipality have adopted nearly 5,000 seedlings," Liu said. 

In addition to serving as vital spawning grounds, nurseries and habitats for many marine animal species, mangrove forests, have other important ecological values, according to Liu. "Research shows that mangrove ecosystems, which cover only 0.1 percent of the global land area, account for 5 percent of global carbon storage," he wrote in an article published in Knowledge Is Power, a Beijing-based magazine popularizing science to children and adolescents. The CMCN website also carries information showing that although the biomass of coastal plants is only 0.05 percent of that of terrestrial plants, their annual carbon sequestration is equivalent to that of all terrestrial plants. 

Benefits of mangrove forests are not limited to greenhouse gas sequestration. "Scientists have observed that after passing through a large mangrove belt stretching 100 meters in width and 1 km in length, a category 10 typhoon will cause little damage to the shore," Liu's article read. 

Reversing a decline  

Despite the value of mangrove forests, they are being destroyed at an alarming rate all over the world. In the past 100 years, 67 percent of global mangrove forests have been lost, according to the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs. 

Due to stepped-up protection in recent years, China has halted and reversed the trend within its borders. The country was home to 50,000 hectares of mangrove forests in the 1950s, which dropped by more than 50 percent to 22,000 hectares in 2001 and then rose to 28,900 hectares in 2019, Wu Zhimin, then Director General of the Wetland Management Department of the National Forestry and Grassland Administration (NFGA), said at a press conference in 2020. 

Mangroves had been cleared for timber, and to make way for aquaculture and coastal infrastructure construction, and they had also been lost to land reclamation, pollution and invasive species. 

"Human interference has led to stunted growth, sparsity, and decreased biodiversity in mangrove forests," Wu said. "Research shows that of the 37 mangrove plant species in China, two have become the dominant species, while half are endangered to various degrees." He pointed out that a decrease in burrowing crabs reduces soil oxygen supply and hampers the growth of mangroves. "At present, mangroves in China are still facing major threats such as pollution, overfishing, and the invasion of alien species," he said. 

In August 2020, China released the 2020-25 action plan on mangrove conservation and restoration, which calls for strong measures to conserve, restore and protect mangrove ecosystems. 

The document puts mangrove forests not already within nature reserves and other areas suitable for the restoration of mangroves under strict protection. It states that new mangrove reserves will be built, and all aquaculture farms within nature reserves will be phased out. 

It sets the goal of planting 9,050 hectares of mangroves and rehabilitating 9,750 hectares of existing mangroves by the end of 2025. Specifically, 5,500 hectares will be planted in Guangdong, 2,000 hectares in Hainan, 1,000 hectares in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, 350 hectares in Fujian, and 200 in Zhejiang Province. 

In 2021, the NFGA and the Ministry of Natural Resources jointly issued a handbook for mangrove ecological restoration techniques, spelling out guidelines including those for seedling cultivation and plant variety selection. 

On June 1, 2022, China's first law on protecting wetlands went into force, creating a legal imperative to protect mangrove forests. 

Engaging the public  

While the government leads mangrove restoration and rehabilitation efforts through issuing policies and guidelines, establishing nature reserves and financing major projects, nongovernmental organizations such as the CMCN have also made contributions. 

The CMCN has collaborated with Fujian Jiulong Jiangkou Provincial Mangrove Nature Reserve for nearly 20 years, carrying out activities including ecological restoration and research, and engaging the general public in planting more than 1 million mangrove trees. 

The Jiulong River is the second longest waterway in Fujian. According to the CMCN, in the late 20th and early 21st century, due to the operation of fast boats, illegal sand mining and other economic activities, a large area of mangrove forests around the river estuary was lost, causing the overall forest belt in some areas to retreat an average of 10 meters and posing a threat to the stability of the local ecology. Through joint efforts of government departments and community groups, the once degraded mudflats in the area have now become vibrant places in which mangroves grow and wildlife live. 

As the mangrove belt becomes wider and wider, "the biodiversity of the river estuary has further improved. Rare and endangered species such as the black-faced spoonbill, yellow-billed egret, and Chinese white dolphin have become frequent visitors there," Liu said. "Moreover, public awareness of mangrove conservation has made a big leap from where it was 20 years ago." 

Challenges and hopes  

The restoration of mangrove areas faces more challenges than the restoration of vegetation on land, Liu said. 

"It is necessary to take into consideration multiple factors such as substrate quality, elevation and the salinity of mudflats when assessing their suitability for afforestation," Liu said. "In addition to mangrove forests, mangrove wetland ecosystems also include bare flats, tidal channels, and shallow water areas. Our aim is not to plant mangroves to cover all the bare flat areas." 

In addition to planting trees, he underlined the importance of science-based management and protection after restoration for the survival of the trees and the success of afforestation. 

Liu also calls for eradicating invasive species such as salt-water cordgrass, Spartina alterniflora, before mangrove seedlings are planted. Introduced into China about four decades ago, the grass was once welcomed as it can thrive in barren salt marshes, grows to about two meters tall and is very dense, capable of protecting coastal facilities from waves. But later, its many potential risks came to light, including clogging shipping channels, triggering algal blooms, crowding out local species, and taking over the habitat of mudskippers, migratory birds and other creatures. Controlling the species is difficult and expensive. 

"In recent years, the NFGA and local governments have carried out several programs to control the grass," Liu said. The action plan for mangrove protection and restoration states that salt-water cordgrass should be brought under control nationwide by 2025. In 2022, Fujian also issued its own roadmap to control the grass. 

Another challenge for mangrove restoration is the high economic cost of returning aquaculture ponds to mangroves. Sustainable livelihood models such as mangrove beekeeping and mangrove ecotourism should be introduced in a timely manner, and providing small subsidies, skills training and other support to local communities will help to achieve win-win results and yield economic, social, and environmental benefits, according to Liu. 

Bao Daming, an official with NFGA, once told the Guangdong-based Southern Metropolis Daily, ecological tourism and eco-friendly aquaculture could be allowed in mangrove forests outside the protected areas. However, he stressed that "protection should be prioritized, so that the ecological function of mangroves will not be damaged and the stability of mangrove ecosystems will not be affected." 

In June 2021, the management bureau of Zhanjiang Mangrove National Nature Reserve in Guangdong, the Third Institute of Oceanography (TIO) under the Ministry of Natural Resources, and Beijing Entrepreneur Environmental Protection Foundation signed an agreement on the trading of carbon credits amounting to 5,880 tons of carbon emissions. According to the foundation, this is the first blue carbon project successfully traded in China. The foundation bought the carbon credits to neutralize the greenhouse gas emissions generated from its daily operations and its other environmental protection projects. 

Blue carbon refers to carbon sequestered by coastal and marine ecosystems. The world's ocean is the largest carbon reservoir on Earth, storing and recycling more than 93 percent of the total carbon dioxide on the planet. The Zhanjiang Mangrove National Nature Reserve is the largest of its kind in China, protecting one third of the country's total mangrove area. While visiting the reserve on April 10, President Xi Jinping said its mangrove forests are a national treasure that must be protected "as well as we protect our own eyes." 

"The successful development of this project demonstrates the huge progress China has made in mangrove restoration and research," Chen Guangcheng, a research fellow with the TIO, said. 

文章编号: a251aba3926a0160ca94b73168113c54
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
