文章总数: 1 篇
==============================

1. 上海日报 -  (Project targets endangered Chinese dolphinsYao Minji) 2008-08-06 Cover Story C3  Yao Minji

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Project targets endangered Chinese dolphinsYao Minji

Yao Minji

Humans have a long history of fascination with dolphins and whales. As far back as 179 BC people in today's Hong Kong were observing and recording the activities of these amazing mammals.

But for all of the scientific observation over the past century, still little is known about many species including the Chinese White Dolphin, also known as the Indo-Pacific Humpback Dolphin or Sousa Chinensis.

Known in China as the "giant panda in the ocean," the Chinese White Dolphin is a first-grade state-protection animal and acted as the official mascot for Hong Kong's return to the motherland back in 1997.

It is so named because it was first observed in China's Pearl River Delta, but the species mainly lives in tropical to sub-tropical oceans in China and Australia, usually in shallow coastal areas close to the river mouths.

Although described as white, adult Chinese White Dolphins tend to be pink although they are born gray. An adult can grow up to 250 centimeters and weight up to 230 kilograms.

According to Dr Andy Cornish from World Wild Fund for Nature's Hong Kong branch, experts know very little about the dolphins even after 10 to 15 years of research. That's because the period of research is far too short compared with the 40-year life expectancy of a normal Chinese White Dolphin.

"We organized a group of international experts to study the dolphins in Hong Kong and they found the species confronting all the threats that face dolphins all over the world," Dr Cornish tells Shanghai Daily.

Due to threats such as increased poaching, sea traffic as well as industrial, agricultural and domestic sewage, there are only five areas of concentration for the dolphins in China - the Pearl River Delta, Xiamen in Fujian Province, Leizhou in Guangdong Province, Lijiang in Yunnan Province and Sanniang Bay in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.

Of the five, Leizhou is the least studied since it was only discovered two and half years ago. The coastal city of Xiamen has the smallest population while Pearl River Delta has the largest - an estimated 1,000.

As a result, WWF Hong Kong and cosmetics brand AUPRES launched the "Chinese White Dolphin Conservation Project" last week.

The key aim of the three-year project is "to assess the true extent of Chinese White Dolphin population and distribution in China" due to lack of information on the species, according to Dr Lindsay Porter, a British dolphin expert in charge of the study.

"We want to identify locations other than the five primary habitats we've already known, assess population boundaries and habitat status of the Chinese White Dolphins and update knowledge of population sizes, distribution and social dynamics," says Dr Porter.

Both Cornish and Porter are positive about the chances of discovering new Chinese White Dolphin groups and habitats, and they are keen to maintain existing natural habitats such as the untouched one in Sanniang Bay while restoring the distorted habitat in Hong Kong.

A new sighting in Zhangjiang Estuary in Fujian Province was discovered just 10 days before the project was launched.

Besides scientific research, the study will also focus on raising public awareness about protecting the endangered dolphins. Information bulletins will be distributed to customers at AUPRES counters all over the country.

Porter says she is interested in the Chinese White Dolphins because "they are the most sociable and flexible of all the different dolphins I have seen all around the world."

"The Chinese White Dolphins, especially the males, lead a very complicated life which involves constantly changing social relationships. It's like human society where you live in a community and try to help each other," she adds.

According to Dr Porter, since Chinese White Dolphins don't travel much, they "learn to live together and to share limited resources by helping each other while allowing freedom for individuals."

Females and calves form large stable groups. As calves grow, most sub-adult males leave the group but females stay to help raise the babies. Females become adults when they are about 11 years old. Calves are born mostly in May and June.

With a life expectancy of 40 years, females are pregnant for 11 months and tend to have only one baby every three to four years.

"That's why the Chinese White Dolphin is a long-living and slow-reproducing species, which urges us to face all the threats they are confronting," notes Dr Porter.

In order to protect all dolphins, Dr Porter suggests people stop or minimize pollution as much as possible because "the aquatic environment is not irreversible."

"Once you stop or minimize pollution, the aquatic environment bounces back quickly. From past experience, fish return within just a few years," she says.

As Chinese White Dolphins take up residence close to the coast and river mouths, they also tend to be affected by pollution in the rivers and on land.

Some companies have launched dolphin-watching services in Hong Kong and Guangxi's Sanniang Bay. Dr Cornish says such efforts help raise public awareness, but they really should be careful not to disturb the animals.

The WWF has worked with such services to provide dolphin-watching guidelines and make sure the watchers are aware of what might scare the dolphins.

The guidelines suggest watchers drive slowly and quietly, not dump trash in the ocean, not touch or feed the dolphins and keep at least 500 meters away from them.

"It's important to raise public awareness in order for people to reduce pollution in the ocean, rivers and on the land and thereby help protect the Chinese White Dolphin," concludes Dr Cornish.

文章编号: 7cf6f217518bd7429122193bb6daa441
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
